.\" Copyright 2020 IBM Corp.
.\" s390-tools is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
.\"
.TH GENPROTIMG 8 "Feb. 2020" "s390-tools"
.SH NAME
genprotimg \- Create a Protected Virtualization image


.SH SYNOPSIS
.B genprotimg
\fB\-c\fR \fIHOST_CERTIFICATE\fR
\fB\-i\fR \fIVMLINUZ\fR
[\fB\-r\fR \fIRAMDISK\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIPARMFILE\fR]
\fB\-o\fR \fIOUTFILE\fR
[\fIOPTION\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B genprotimg
is essentially a program that takes a kernel, key files, and optionally
an initial ram filesystem, and optionally a file containing the kernel
command line parameters and generates a single loadable image file.
This created image file consists of a concatenation of a plain text boot
loader, the encrypted components for kernel, initrd, and cmdline,
and the integrity-protected PV header, containing metadata necessary
for running the guest in PV mode.

It's possible to use this image file as a kernel for zipl or for
a direct kernel boot using QEMU. See the
.BR zipl (5)
man page for details on how to use zipl and the
.BR qemu (1)
man page for details on how to use qemu.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR "\-h" " or " "\-\-help"
Print usage information, then exit.

.TP
.BR "\-\-help-experimental"
Print experimental usage information, then exit.

.TP
.BR "\-\-help-all"
Print all usage information, then exit.

.TP
.BR "\-V" " or " "\-\-verbose"
Provide more verbose output.

.TP
.BR "\-c <HOST CERTIFICATE>" " or " "\-\-host-certificate=<HOST CERTIFICATE>"
Use the specified <HOST CERTIFICATE> as a host certificate. At least
one host certificate must be specified.

.TP
.BR "\-o <OUTPUT FILE>" " or " "\-\-output=<OUTPUT FILE>"
Use the specified <OUTPUT FILE> as the output file. Required.

.TP
.BR "\-i <VMLINUZ>" " or " "\-\-image=<VMLINUZ>"
Use the Linux kernel image file <VMLINUZ>. Required.

.TP
.BR "\-r <RAMDISK>" " or " "\-\-ramdisk=<RAMDISK>"
Use the ramdisk image <RAMDISK>. Optional.

.TP
.BR "\-p <PARMFILE>" " or " "\-\-parmfile=<PARMFILE>"
Use the kernel command line stored in file <PARMFILE>. Optional.

.TP
.BR "\-\-header-key=<FILE>"
Use the specified <FILE> as the AES 256-bit GCM customer root key that
protects the PV header. Will be auto-generated if omitted.

.TP
.BR "\-\-comp-key=<FILE>"
Specify the AES 256-bit XTS key to be used for encrypting the image
components. Will be auto-generated if omitted.

.TP
.BR "\-\-no-cert-check"
Do not require host certificate(s) to be valid.

.TP
.BR "\-v" " or " "\-\-version"
Print version information, then exit.


.SH EXAMPLE
Scenario: prepare a Protected Virtualization image using the following
parameters:
.br
  - the directory /boot is located on the boot device
.br
  - vmlinuz contains the raw binary Linux kernel image
.br
  - ramdisk.img contains a ramdisk image
.br
  - parmfile contains the kernel parameter line
.br
  - host_key.crt contains the public host certificate
.br

.RB "The respective " "genprotimg " "call reads:"
.br

  $ genprotimg -i vmlinuz -r ramdisk.img \\
.br
       -p parmfile --host-certificate host_key.crt \\
.br
       -o /boot/vmlinuz.pv
.br


.SH NOTES
.IP \(em
No ELF file can be used as Linux kernel image.
.IP \(em
If a key is omitted it will be in-memory auto-generated except for
host certificates.
.IP \(em
Don't forget to re-run
.BR zipl
after updating a Protected Virtualization image.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zipl (5)
.BR qemu (1)
